= Music Web Services Comparison =
== Summary ==

|| *Name* || *Version* || *Platforms* || *Languages/Framework* || *AMS*`*` || *Services* || *Request* || *Response* || *Doc* || *Registration* || *Terms* || 
|| Deezer || 3.0 || Windows, Mac OS X, Linux || || Yes || Search, Lookup Artist/Album/Lookup Track|| HTTP/GET || XML, JSON, PHP || [http://www.deezer.com/fr/developers/#developers/simpleapi/ Here]. || [http://www.deezer.com/fr/api#api/new.php Here]. || ||
|| Grooveshark || 1.0 || Windows, Mac OS X, Linux || || No || [http://developers.grooveshark.com/ See detailed services here].|| HTTP/GET || JSON-encoded objects || [http://developers.grooveshark.com/ Here]. || Need web service key. || ||
|| Last.FM || 2.0 || Windows, Mac OS X, Linux || Java, C++, .NET, Python, Ruby, PHP, Actionscript, C#, Perl, Javascript, Objective-C || No || Search, album/artiste browsing, chart, radio, [http://www.lastfm.fr/api/intro see more]. || HTTP/GET, XML-RPC || Text, XML, JSON, XSPF, RSS || [http://www.lastfm.fr/api/intro Here]. || [http://www.lastfm.fr/api/account Here]. Requires an account! || [http://www.lastfm.fr/api/tos Here]. ||
|| Soundcloud || Java wrapper: 1.0.0 beta ; C wrapper: 0.6.0 ||  || Java, C, Python, Actionscript 3, PHP, Ruby, Cocoa, Javascript || No || Authentication, Search for tracks/users/groups/playlists, upload of music, add or delete comments || HTTP/GET || XML, JSON || [http://github.com/soundcloud/api/wiki/ Here] || [http://soundcloud.com/you/apps/new Here]. Requires an account. || [http://soundcloud.com/community-guidelines Community Guidelines], [http://soundcloud.com/terms-of-use Terms of Use], [http://soundcloud.com/developers/policies#trademark Trademark Guidelines], [http://soundcloud.com/pages/privacy Privacy Policy] ||
|| Spotify || 0.0.6 || Windows, Mac OS X, Linux || C || No || Search, Artist/Album browsing, Session/User/Image/Playlist/Toplist handling || C call || C type || [http://developer.spotify.com/en/libspotify/docs/ Here] || [https://developer.spotify.com/en/libspotify/application-key/ Here]. Requires a Premium account first! || [http://developer.spotify.com/en/libspotify/terms-of-use/ Here] ||

_`*`AMS: Access to music streams

== Details ==
=== Deezer ===

Deezer proposes a very light API ([http://www.deezer.com/fr/#developers/simpleapi/ simpleapi]), with few methods :
 * Search
 * Lookup artist, album and tracks.

A stronger API seems to exist but is not released yet see: [http://www.deezer.com/fr/#developers/api/ Deezer API] (only reachable by changing the url).

Those API are only available by submitting our projects to Deezer and it looks like their answer are not instant. 


=== Grooveshark ===

Grooveshark API documentation is slight. Many methods are referenced but with no clear uses of them.

A public APi also exists: [http://apishark.com/ here]. There are more information on how to use the different methods and it's free of charge 
but the main problem is that it is unofficial see it's [http://apishark.com/API_TOS.pdf Terms of Service].

=== Last.FM ===

LastFM provides us an API than can be used as well on desktop applications and or mobile devices. The documentation gathers 
a big number of methods and is welled structured. 

It is required to be authenticated to ask for the API and as said on the terms of service 
'you must be a registered User to have access to, retrieve and use the Last.fm Data'. 

=== Pandora ===

 * Not allowed for non US residents.
 * [http://www.soatothecloud.com/2009/08/sorry-no-pandora-api-here-folks.html Apparently no API].

=== Soundcloud ===

Soundcloud provides a strong API, samples and supports many languages. The Soundcloud API is based on RESTful Web Services and communicates through HTTP/GET requests and XML or JSON responses.

Many wrappers are available:
 * [http://code.google.com/p/soundcloudapi-java/ Java wrapper]: latest version is 1.0.0 beta and the library is under [http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Apache License 2.0].
 * [http://wiki.github.com/DaveGamble/soundcloud-c-api-wrapper C wrapper]
and also Python, PHP, Actionscript 3, Cocoa, Ruby wrappers.
A [http://wiki.github.com/soundcloud/Widget-JS-API widget Javascript API] is also available.

Soundcloud provides the following services:
 * authentication
 * search for tracks/users/groups/playlists
 * upload music files
 * add or delete comments

_No information found yet about how to access to a music stream from Soundcloud. The API seems to provide only music information._

==== Links ====

 * [http://soundcloud.com/developers SoundCloud Developer Zone]
 * [http://github.com/soundcloud/api/wiki/ SoundCloud API Wiki]
 * [http://soundcloud.com/developers/policies SoundCloud Developer Policies]

=== Spotify ===

Spotify only provides a C API package, called _libspotify_. That API is available for:
 * Windows
 * Mac OS X (x86, x86_64, PowerPC)
 * Linux (x86, x86_64)
and requires a Premium Accound to apply for an application key.

[http://developer.spotify.com/en/libspotify/terms-of-use/ Libspotify terms of use] does *not approve* _any mobile wireless handset or any other internet-enabled device that is designed to be handheld_.

==== Links ====

 * [http://developer.spotify.com/en/libspotify/overview/ Official Web Site]
 * [http://developer.spotify.com/en/libspotify/docs/ Official Documentation]
 * [https://developer.spotify.com/en/libspotify/application-key/ Apply an application key]